# Lost In Somnia

Nightmares are terrifying, largely through the tendency to be distinctly alienating and confusing to the dreamer; and I strived to capture this sense of all-consuming disorientation through my final piece Lost in Somnia. Courtesy of the 'play p5.js' library, the ghost animation plays the role of the dreamer - a lost figure who merely hovers amidst the events which swarm and meander through and around him. He has neither agency nor control over such events, but instead retains his focal position in the centre of the screen. The user manipulates the chaotic flow of events by moving the mouse around the screen, and can create the effect of 'slowing' such events by pressing the mouse so that the piece zooms out, contributing a sense of added perspective evocative of those intermittent periods in which the dreamer may, momentarily, become lucid amidst the stream of his nightmares; yet they prove only temporary respites. The events include an eclectic variety of images - a cartoon Salvador Dali, a manga eye, the black silhouette of a snake, a grey question mark symbol, and a striking red blood splatter - which evoke a further sense of unsettling disorientation. The piece's initial purple background is largely rendered invisible by the overlaid events; and colors and textures are aesthetic emphases. The created chaos of grey, black, and red colours, adumbrative of ghoulish swarms, provides a constantly shifting canvas of mercurial swirls and shadows which is strikingly juxtaposed against the steadfast blueness of the ghost. The ghost animation hovers in the centre of the screen, confined within this undeniably strange and uncertain landscape by the frayed edges of the abstract green frame. Like a dreamer suffering the torments of an irrepressible nightmare, the ghost is trapped - completely and utterly lost amidst a realm of surreal uncertainty to whose ebbs and flows he thoroughly lacks conscious access.[309]
